"1Rights (esp. Derechos): Principles and rules that govern human relationships across civil society, and that all citizens should be subject."
"2Ius sanguinis, Ius solis (latin. Derecho Sanguineo, Derecho de Sol): Jus soli is the right to a nationality or citizenship given because one is born in the territory of the state. Jus sanguinis is the right to a nationality or citizenship given because one has an ancestor (e.g. a parent) who has the nationality or citizenship of the state."
"3Civil: Relationships or interests with respect to private persons, their status or their property."
"4Exception (esp. Excepcion): Legal grounds to defend the plaintiff's action."
"5Bicameral (esp. Bicameral): Power composed of two legislative chambers: Deputies and Senators."
"6Verdict (esp. Fallo): Judgment of a court, arbitrator or jury."
"7Acatar (esp. Acatar): Obey voluntarily accept a standard or authority."
"8Court (esp. Corte): Institution that receives, analyzes, and judge based on laws and general regulations for all sectors of society."
"9Voters Register (esp. Registro Electoral): Where data of persons who may exercise the right to vote in a given election are saved."
"10Comptroller (esp. Contraloria): Governmental entity intended for the monitoring and control of expenditure of public administration."
"11Subordination (esp. Subordinacion): Dependency of a higher power. For example, Army Forces are subordinated to the civil power, because it has been elected by the majority of the people."
"12Incumbency (esp. Incumbencia): Obligation imposed on a person or institution, especially because of its position or condition."
"13Autonomy (esp. Autonomia): Faculty of a person or entity acting in its sole discretion to govern according to their own laws and agencies."
"14Decentralization  (esp. Descentralizacion): Transfer of skills and services of the central administration to local or regional authorities."
"15Quorums: Minimum number of members required to be present for certain assemblies or meetings these have validity."
"16Disposition (esp. Disposición): Management of any matter conveniently to an end."